---
title: 4AM Club
description:
date: 2023-12-21
tags:
  - morning person
  - early riser
  - saas
  - indie hackers
  - business
  - passion
  - personal development
layout: layouts/post.njk
image: /img/og/opengraph-reboot.png
---
I wake up every day before 4am. Seven days a week that is. Every time the subject comes up I get looks that range between fascination, respect but also plenty of "what the fuck dude?".

Over the years I came across many posts about the "4am club" and usually those are about incredible business success (that's how you get it, pay attention folks!) tied to the daily routines of highly unrelatable people like Tim Cook or Michelle Obama.

If it only were that easy.

I don't see myself as successful in the conventional sense. Yet, I'm very happy with where I am in life, and it's not really because I wake up early.

I guess the biggest indicator of this habit leading anywhere near financial success is probably the discipline part. If you're able to get up on a daily basis while everybody is still in bed, you're probably a pretty disciplined person.

But then again, [you might've just been disciplined for 21 days](https://jamesclear.com/new-habit) and then just established a habit. Because for me, it's become automatic. I don't think it's particularly difficult or challenging anymore. In fact, I'm excited when I hear my alarm and can jump out of bed.

That said, why I decided to start my days fairly early has just practical reasons. I have a bunch of side projects that I want to work on and can do so only outside my dayjob hours. Usually that would mean late afternoons, evenings or late nights. But, I have two little kids and afternoons and evenings is reserved for them.

Add to that, after working a full day and playing with the little monkeys all afternoon, I'm usually pretty spent in the evenings. Just picking out a Netflix movie is already a major challenge at this point in the day. Well, it actually always is but you get what I'm saying.

That's why I've decided to just go to sleep with them. Read stories together, sleep, recharge. Lights out at 8:30pm.

To some friends here in Spain, that sounds odd and draws more skepticism than my early rising. When we go to sleep it's most people's dinner time over here. But, to me that whole thing [is yet another Nazi related mistake](https://www.bbc.com/travel/article/20170504-the-strange-reason-spaniards-eat-late) and also the reason why our family keeps all our social gatherings and whatnot during lunch time.

Anyway, I then came to realize that my morning hours are even more precious than I thought. Take away the side projects and replace it with general me-time. It has been studied widely that when you lead a busy life, as one does with two toddlers around, it is pretty darn healthy to have time to do whatever the hell you like.

To me right now, it's creating things. My side hustles. Those bring me joy, excitement and self-fulfilment. That might change at some point and I might just use that time for running and reading, but it's still my time. And I think I'm much better off protecting that.

The exact time doesn't matter. Waking up at 3:30 am works for me, but it might not for others. But I think being intentional about such things is a much better way going about your life than thinking waking up early will somehow make you successful. I don't think that's Tim Cook's secret sauce either. It does feel cool though being up before Jocko does. 🙂

How about you? Are you a morning person? Are you intentional about your time? Hit me up [on the twitters](https://twitter.com/marcelfahle), I would love to hear more about that!

